# Basics-of-SEO-content-writing
Search engine optimization (SEO) refers to methods that used to increase traffic to a website by increasing its search engine page rank. SEO is most often involves improving the quality of the content, ensuring that it is rich in relevant keywords and organizing it by using subheads, bullet points, and bold and italic characters. SEO also ensures that the site’s HTML is optimized such that a search engine can also determine what is on the page and display it as a search result in relevant searches. These standards involve the use of metadata, including the title tag and Meta description also. Get your keyword research on. If you’re going to post content on your website anyway, you might as well take the time to make sure Google takes a notice of your effort that you have done. Find out which keywords and phrases people are searching for as well as what you can be competitive, and make yourself a keyword spreadsheet to keep a track. When keep track of how many times you work the keywords into your content, and use the right tools to track where you rank for the keywords you target.  Put the keywords to work. However, being an SEO content writer just meant dumping keywords into your copy but that’s not how the game is played anymore. While it’s still a good idea to include your target keyword throughout your content, peppering your copy with forced keywords won’t really move the dial much also. As the case with any bit of SEO strategy, you’ve got to be more tactical. Remember, the people using search engines are searching for that particular kind phrase because they want to know more about it/buy it, so it makes sense to give them what they’re looking for. You’ll get more of clicks if you do it’s one of the tricks of the trade for professional SEO article writers. Write about something people care about. We’re not being facetious, here too often, and article writers just to pump out content for no real reason, with no real strategy behind it. They forget that actual humans need to want to read this stuff you’re not really writing for mainly for Google’s algorithms, you’re writing for people! When you’re writing, you should always seek to offer some sort of value added things to your readers. What can you tell them that no one else can? What service can you provide that’s unique? What knowledge can you share that can’t be found anywhere else? Know the basics of technical SEO All the keyword optimization in the world won’t help you if your site isn’t even indexed. As a writer, you aren’t expected to know how to migrate a website, or to enable HTTPS across an entire domain. You don’t really have to know about how to maximize a crawl budget as well, and you don’t have to know about minifying JavaScript. Yet, knowing a few things about technical of search engine optimization specialists can make you a better SEO writer. Mostly, understanding how Google crawls pages and hands out link authority can help you build a strategy.  After all, content writing isn’t just about writing about a singular blog post it’s about writing and linking up a bunch of them together. If you have a good understanding of how your blog should be structured, you can help make everything work with little bit more efficient which means that a backlink to one of your posts will give your site the maximum benefit. Keeping your images small, ensuring that there aren’t too many popups on any particular page, or simply being able to make sure that your blog posts are indexed are all skills you should have as a search engine optimization service writer. Watch your analytics. SEO writing isn’t fire-and-forget you shouldn’t just post your content and walk away from it. In fact, you should be regularly monitoring your content using Google Analytics. According to data gathered by the folks, time on site, bounce rate, and pages per session are all as important if not more important than keyword density. When you think about it, that’s not that surprising much. If your website has a high bounce rate, that means that visitors to your site aren’t staying for long, likely because your page isn’t providing them with the information what they’re looking for. If your bounce rate is high, there’s a good chance your page isn’t optimized properly for the appropriate keywords so search engine optimization agency.
